# azure-terraform-cluster

Scripts to create a minimal mesos or nomad cluster on Azure using terraform.

**Table of Contents**


* [Overview](README.md#overview)
   * [Nomad](README.md#nomad)
   * [Mesos](README.md#mesos)
* [Using the Makefile](README.md#using-the-makefile)
   * [Spinning up a cluster](README.md#spinning-up-a-cluster)
* [Azure credentials setup](README.md#azure-credentials-setup)
   * [Creating a service principal](README.md#creating-a-service-principal)

## Overview

This creates `5` master and `10` agents in a mesos or nomad cluster.
You can change the number of masters with `MASTER_COUNT` and the number of
agents with `AGENT_COUNT`.

It also creates a "jumpbox" or ["bastion host"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bastion_host)
since all the masters and agents are not publicly accessible.

If you want to ssh into the internal nodes you must first go through the
bastion on node.

The username on the nodes is `vmuser`.

The base image for all the virtual machines 
is [CoreOS Container Linux](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/).

The cloud-config.yml files defines the servers running on each of the hosts.
The hosts are designed to be super minimal. This is done via the 
[CoreOS Cloud Configuration](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/cloud-config.html).

All internal IPs are in the block 10.x.0.x.

These are multi-region so `westus2` is 10.1.0.x and so on and so forth for the
other regions.

So the first 5 in the block are the masters: `10.x.0.5-9`. And the agents
follow after starting at `10.x.0.10`.

The IPs get populated programmatically in the terraform files. But they are
statically added in the `cloud-config*` files. 
TODO: This should be updated eventually so the cloud config files are generated 
with the ips as well.


### Nomad

On each server there are helpers in the `bashrc` so that you can run `nomad`
and `consul` commands from the host. This just uses a container under the hood
and you can see the alias with `type nomad`.

Both consul and nomad are setup with TLS which is generated by the Makefile
when the cluster is created.

On the **bastion server** we run:

- Nomad Dashboard: **This is opened on port 8080 by default so you will want to 
    change that if you want your cluster to be secure.**
    This is only done so it is easy to demo.

On the **masters** we run:

- Consul
- Nomad Server

On the **agents** we run:

- Nomad Agent

### Mesos

On the **bastion server** we run:

- [Mesos Marathon](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/): **This is opened on
    port 8080 by default so you will want to change that if you want your cluster
    to be secure.** This is only done so it is easy to demo.

On the **masters** we run:

- Mesos Master
- Zookeeper


On the **agents** we run:

- Mesos Agent


## Using the `Makefile`

You will need to set the following environment variables:

- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID`
- `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`

See [creating a service principal](#creating-a-service-principal) on how to get
these values.

```console
$ make help
mesos-apply                    Run terraform apply for mesos.
mesos-destroy                  Run terraform destroy for mesos.
nomad-apply                    Run terraform apply for nomad.
nomad-destroy                  Run terraform destroy for nomad.
shellcheck                     Run shellcheck on all scripts in the repository.
test                           Runs all the tests.
update-terraform               Update terraform binary locally from the docker container.
update                         Run all update targets.
```

### Spinning up a cluster

This is as simple as:

```console
$ AZURE_CLIENT_ID=0000 AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=0000 AZURE_TENANT_ID=0000 AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID=0000 \
    make az-apply
```

## Azure credentials setup

You need a service principal in order to use the `Makefile`.

### Creating a service principal

```console
$ az ad sp create-for-rbac --role="Contributor" --scopes="/subscriptions/SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
```

The command will output the following:

```json
{
    "appId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
    "displayName": "azure-cli-2017-06-05-10-41-15",
    "name": "http://azure-cli-2017-06-05-10-41-15",
    "password": "0000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
    "tenant": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
}
```

These values map to the `Makefile` variables like so:

- `appId` is the `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` defined above
- `password` is the `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` defined above
- `tenant` is the `AZURE_TENANT_ID` defined above

**Reference docs:**

- `terraform` docs on setting up authentication:
[here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/authenticating_via_service_principal.html).

